Hi there [music] and welcome to the MPC
Sample Academy. In this series of
videos, I will walk you through [music]
the entire process using MPC Sample. In
this first episode, we will cover
navigating around the hardware and walk
you through all the key features.
There's also a quick start guide in the
box to get you up and running instantly
so you can start making your own beats.
As soon as you switch on MPC sample,
[music] the factory startup kits and
demo projects will automatically load
with eight demo projects and eight
different styles of drum kits [music]
across pad banks A to H. Now press the
green play button
[music] and MPC sample will start
playing some of the factory beats. Now
to stop the beat, just [music] press the
white stop button. Now, if you hit the
pads, you can play all the samples
and start creating your own beats.
Now, to listen to some of the other drum
kits, hold down the pad [music] bank
button, then you can select any one of
the eight preloaded kits. Let's go to
the 808 kit. [music]
Now, let's hold down pad bank and let's
select a different drum kit. [music]
Here's an electronic kit. Now, to record
your own beats, press the sequence
button. This [music] takes us into our
sequencer screen. Using the pads, you
can now select sequences. Now, any of
the pads that are bright yellow already
have sequences made. [music] Now, you
can select an empty sequence by pressing
the dimmed lit pads, which are blank
sequences. Now, once you've selected the
sequence, it will pulse in green. Now,
let's change our tempo by holding our
tempo button and [music] using the
encoder. Now we're ready to record. Hit
the sequence record button and play.
[music]
Now we're putting down our kick and
snare idea.
Now if you make a mistake, you can press
and hold shift and the [music] undo
button to start again. If you decide to
keep the part again, press redo. [music]
Now with sequence record still armed, we
can add more ideas over our beat. Let's
add a high hat.
>> [music]
>> Now let's add a shaker.
[music]
Now we've recorded our idea. Let's turn
off sequence record
and [music] hit sample button to go back
to our sounds. Now let's hold note
repeat. That will repeat our sound in
sync.
Now, to speed it up, use the time
divisions at the top of the screen. Note
repeat is a great feature, especially
for recording [music] your high hats.
Holding down the erase button, then the
pad will [music] remove those event
notes from your sequence. We're removing
our high hats. [music]
Now, let's hold down shift and undo and
we'll put our high hats back in. [music]
Now, to record a sound of your own voice
using a built-in mic, press the record
sample button. Now, press the pad you
wish to record your sound to and speak
into the mic. Check one. Check two. Now,
press the pad again to end the
recording. Now, press sample to see our
recording. And now, we can trim the
start and end points to the parts we
want to use just by turning the knobs.
Check one. Check two. Now, if you hold
shift and pad 13, we can trim the
sample, removing the parts we don't
need. If you press the tune button, we
can now change the pitch of our sample.
>> Check one. Check one. Check two.
>> If we turn warp on, our sample will now
be in time.
>> Check one, check two.
Check one, check two. [music]
Check one, check two.
>> Check one, check two.
>> If we press knob effects, we can add
effects like reverb. One, check two.
Check one, check two.
>> To load your own samples, the sample
select button allows you to access the
internal factory library or an SD card
for your own sounds. Find a sound and
then push down onto the encoder and it
will load straight to the selected pad.
If you change the directory from
internal to external, you can now access
samples from your own SD card. Now, to
name and save your samples, hold down
shift and sample select. The MPC fader
allows you to change the volume of a
sample by holding down the pad [music]
and moving the fader up and down. If you
hold shift and press pad 9, you can
change the fader's controls, which will
be displayed [music] on the screen,
including everything from panning,
tuning to filter cutff.
At the top under modes, we have our
sample button, which when we hit a pad
will display the sample on the color
screen. Here we can go under trim and we
can trim the start and end points of our
sample. Holding shift allows us to zoom
in for more accuracy. Then we can change
to mix for our levels and panning. And
then we have our envelope. Then we have
tuning where we can tune our samples.
[music]
Then we have mute groups, mono and
offset. Then if you hold down shift
here, you can link pads together. And
then next to this, you have your filters
with all of your classic MPC filter
types. [music]
Next to this, we have our sequence
button where we can set up MPC sample
for [music] recording. We can set our
bar length. We can set our quantiz
division or even add realtime swing.
Above this we have our tempo. Then we
have our master tempo across all
sequences. And in here we can turn our
quantise on and off. If you hold shift,
you can change the [music] time
signature and adjust the metronome
level. At the heart of MPC sample are
the four powerful creative [music]
effects engines with 60 effects types
which can be applied over your beats in
real time using the three knobs. Now the
first is pad effects. This gives us
[music] up to four effects that we can
apply by putting pressure on the pads.
[music]
If you press the latch button, it will
lock the effect [music] over your beat
to the pad.
You can also edit the effects using the
knobs. [music]
Next, we have flex speed. If you hold
down shift and press the pad effects
button, the pads go purple. Now we have
a patternbased effects engine. This has
everything from stutters, tape stops.
[music] You can adjust the mix amount of
the effect.
And to change the effect type, just
strike the pad.
Then you have knob effects. This is
where you can apply a plugin across your
whole track. And you have 28 different
effects types to choose from. And you
can apply this effect to all pads or to
individual pads. We have everything here
from filters, [music]
bus compressors, and limiters
through to reverbs [music] to vintage
MPC emulations to vinyl and tape.
Yeah.
[music]
Our final effect is our brand new color
compressor. This adds color, vintage
fill, and depth and punch over your
beats.
The more amount we add, the more punch
[music] and bite we have to our drums.
[music]
We can also resample back to a pad with
effects on. As an example, I'm going to
take this beat that has vintage effects
and we're going to resample this back to
a pad. So, we hold down shift, press pad
11, which is reample, and press the pad.
It's now reampling with the effects on.
[music] This means that you can now
change your effects and use them on
something else.
MPC samples chop mode automatically
chops samples across the pads with one
touch, offering five different chop
types, including transients, four
regions, eight regions, 16 regions, and
manual chopping.
[music]
We can go into each chop and manually
change the start and end position of our
chop. [music]
If you hold down shift, we can zoom
straight in to the start and end
position. So you can get the perfect
chop every time. Now to go back to the
original sample, just press the chop
button again. Now to loop samples, just
turn on the loop button. And now press
the sample. [music] Now the sample will
loop automatically.
Holding shift, you can reverse the loop.
It's also great using chop [music] for
melodic samples
and creating your own melodies. [music]
[music]
You also have 16 levels button that
allows you to use the 16 pads to spread
the pitch of a sample [music]
chromatically.
If you hold down shift, you can change
the different 16 [music] level types
from velocity
to opening up your filter.
We also have a mute button that allows
[music] you to mute the pads within your
sequence so you can create inspiring
arrangements. [music]
Then you have note on which changes how
a sample is triggered on the pad. If you
hold the pad down, it will [music]
continually play the sample until you
take your finger off the pad. The pads
also have secondary functions by holding
down shift. Here you [music] have
everything from full levels through to
quantize on and off to entering song
mode where we can [music] chain our
sequences together by entering different
parts to create your own song
arrangement. MPC sample has powerful
sampling [music] capabilities allowing
you to reample internally with and
without effects, sample inputs [music]
through to sample recall, so you never
ever miss an idea that you're playing on
the pads.
>> [music]
>> Now, I want to sample this beat and
we're going to add some effects to this
beat. So, we're going to turn them on.
[music]
And now, we're going to reample this
back to a pad. You hold down shift, hit
reample, and select the pad. And now
it's rendered the sample with effects.
To sample, simply hit sample record. And
now select your input source from the
microphone rear inputs to USB and
resampling. We also have sample recall
which is continually recording in the
background. So if I play a melody,
[music]
I can recall this as a sample. Hit shift
sample [music] recall and it now puts it
to a pad.
There's what I played.
[music]
You can now edit this. chop the sample
up, add effects, and [music] add it over
your beat. You also have a micro SD card
slot, which allows you [music] to load
and save samples and projects. You can
also mount the card to your PC and Mac
to move [music] projects and samples. To
increase or lower the volume, you have a
dedicated volume knob. Below this, you
can see the rechargeable [music] battery
indicator. When fully charged, the
indicator will be green. When amber, you
have 30% [music]
remaining. And when flashing red, you
need to recharge MPC sample using the
supplied USBC [music]
cable. You also have a built-in speaker,
which is perfect for onthe-go beat
making. And on the rear, you can access
all of your inputs and outputs to MPC
sample. Make sure you update your MPC
sample to the latest firmware by
following the address below. You can
either use a smart device or [music]
your desktop computer by plugging in the
USB cable provided. This will
automatically update your MPC sample.
Now, thanks for watching. To learn more,
head over to the MPC sample [music]
academy.